hhx-api.wiki/Variations.md, before:

# Variations endpoint
"Variations" hold data regarding past variations on the Hip Hop Xpress. You can view them on the Hip Hop Xpress website [here](https://publish.illinois.edu/hiphopxpress/sample-page/).

## The Variation object
Each variation object holds data in JSON format. **All attributes are required in POST requests, but not in PUT requests** (see more [here](#create-variation)).
```json
{
  "id": 0,
  "name": "B.E.A.T.S. Trailer",
  "date": "2012-2018",
  "description": [
    "With the Airstream trailer no longer available, Dr. Patterson located...",
    "This trailer, too, required rental of a vehicle to pull it to various...",
  ],
  "images": [
    {
      "url": "https://publish.illinois.edu/.../IPoweredTrailer.jpg",
      "caption": "The B.E.A.T.S. trailer in action",
      "componentImage": true,
    },
    {
      "url": "https://publish.illinois.edu/.../HipHopXpressSideViewTrailer.jpg",
      "caption": "A side view of the B.E.A.T.S. trailer",
      "componentImage": false,
    },
  ]
}
```
### Attributes
Name | Type | Restrictions | Description
-|-|-|-
`id` | `number` | must be unique non-zero integer | unique identifier for variation
`name` | `string` | must be non-empty | display name for variation
`date` | `string` | must be 4 characters or more | describes the running time of variation
`description` | `Array` of `string` | must be non-empty | describes the variation
`images` | `Array` of Image `Object`s | must be non-empty, exactly one Image `Object` must have `componentImage` set to `true` | lists all display images for variation

## The Variation 'Image' object
Image description for `images` array in the variation object. Each field is required when [creating new images.](#add-images)
```json
{
  "url": "https://publish.illinois.edu/.../IPoweredTrailer.jpg",
  "caption": "",
  "componentImage": true,
}
```
### Attributes
Name | Type | Restrictions | Description
-|-|-|-
`url` | `string` | must be a valid URL | points to image of variation
`caption` | `string` | none, can be empty | briefly describes the image
`componentImage` | `boolean` | exactly one image must have `componentImage` set to `true` | describes whether this image is displayed on its component in the mobile app

## Endpoints

*This section is a work in progress.* :pick:

### Overview
A quick overview of all endpoints related to Variations on the Hip Hop Xpress
```javascript
   POST /v1/variations
    GET /v1/variations

    GET /v1/variations/:id
    PUT /v1/variations/:id
 DELETE /v1/variations/:id

   POST /v1/variations/:id/images
    GET /v1/variations/:id/images

   POST /v1/variations/:id/description
    GET /v1/variations/:id/description
```

### Usage
There are  four HTTP response codes to keep in mind when using the Variations endpoint:

HTTP Response Code | Description
-|-
`200` | Successful request
`404` | Variation of specified `id` is not found
`422` | Error, request contains invalid attributes
`500` | Something went wrong server-side (contact us if persistent)

All use cases for the Variations endpoints are listed below.

**Collection wide:**
* [Create variation: `POST /v1/variations`](#create-variation)
* [Retrieve all variations: `GET /v1/variations`](#retrieve-all-variations)

**Variation specific:**
* [Retrieve a variation: `GET /v1/variations/:id`](#retrieve-variation)
* [Update a variation: `PUT /v1/variations/:id`](#update-variation)
* [Delete a variation: `DELETE /v1/variations/:id`](#delete-variation)

**Variation data specific:**
* [Add images for variation: `POST /v1/variations/:id/images`](#add-images)
* [Retrieve images for variation: `GET /v1/variations/:id/images`](#retrieve-images)
* [Add text to variation description: `POST /v1/variations/:id/description`](#add-to-description)
* [Retrieve variation's description: `GET /v1/variations/:id/description`](#retrieve-description)

### Create variation
You can create a variation by sending a `PUT` request to `/v1/variations` with a [variation object](#the-variation-object) (JSON) as the body. All fields are required, and the `id` must be a unique, non-negative integer.

#### Parameters
A valid [variation object](#the-variation-object) (JSON) with correct attributes

#### Returns
The variation object as added in the database if successful. If the request body was invalid, details are returned as an array of error objects. Otherwise, an error object returns. 

### Retrieve all variations
You can retrieve the data for all variations by sending a `GET` request to `/v1/variations`

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
An array of all variation objects, or an error object

### Retrieve variation
Retrieve a specific variation through its `id` by sending a `GET` request to `/v1/variations/:id`, with `:id` being the desired variation's `id` field.

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
The variation object with specified `id`, or an error object

### Update variation
You can update attributes of a specific variation object by sending a `PUT` request to `/v1/variations/:id`, with `:id` being the `id` of a variation.

#### Parameters
A variation object containing only the attributes needing change, and their updated values. For example, if you need to change the `date` attribute, you only need to include the `date` field in your request: `{"date": "some new date"}`. However, any updated attributes must follow the [attribute restrictions](#attributes).

#### Returns
The updated variation object, or an error object

### Delete variation
You can delete a variation object by sending a `DELETE` request to `/v1/variations/:id`, with `:id` being the `id` of the variation to delete.

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
The variation object that was deleted, or an error object

### Add images
You can add images to a specific variation by sending a `POST` request to `/v1/variations/:id/images` and including the [image objects](#the-variation-'image'-object) in your request body.

#### Parameters
Either a single image object or an array of image objects in the request body. All attributes are required for each image object.

#### Returns
The updated images array, or an error object

### Retrieve images

### Add to description

### Retrieve description

Commit message:

send updated description after POST

hhx-api.wiki/Variations.md, after:

# Variations endpoint
"Variations" hold data regarding past variations on the Hip Hop Xpress. You can view them on the Hip Hop Xpress website [here](https://publish.illinois.edu/hiphopxpress/sample-page/).

## The Variation object
Each variation object holds data in JSON format. **All attributes are required in POST requests, but not in PUT requests** (see more [here](#create-variation)).
```json
{
  "id": 0,
  "name": "B.E.A.T.S. Trailer",
  "date": "2012-2018",
  "description": [
    "With the Airstream trailer no longer available, Dr. Patterson located...",
    "This trailer, too, required rental of a vehicle to pull it to various...",
  ],
  "images": [
    {
      "url": "https://publish.illinois.edu/.../IPoweredTrailer.jpg",
      "caption": "The B.E.A.T.S. trailer in action",
      "componentImage": true,
    },
    {
      "url": "https://publish.illinois.edu/.../HipHopXpressSideViewTrailer.jpg",
      "caption": "A side view of the B.E.A.T.S. trailer",
      "componentImage": false,
    },
  ]
}
```
### Attributes
Name | Type | Restrictions | Description
-|-|-|-
`id` | `number` | must be unique non-zero integer | unique identifier for variation
`name` | `string` | must be non-empty | display name for variation
`date` | `string` | must be 4 characters or more | describes the running time of variation
`description` | `Array` of `string` | must be non-empty | describes the variation
`images` | `Array` of Image `Object`s | must be non-empty, exactly one Image `Object` must have `componentImage` set to `true` | lists all display images for variation

## The Variation 'Image' object
Image description for `images` array in the variation object. Each field is required when [creating new images.](#add-images)
```json
{
  "url": "https://publish.illinois.edu/.../IPoweredTrailer.jpg",
  "caption": "",
  "componentImage": true,
}
```
### Attributes
Name | Type | Restrictions | Description
-|-|-|-
`url` | `string` | must be a valid URL | points to image of variation
`caption` | `string` | none, can be empty | briefly describes the image
`componentImage` | `boolean` | exactly one image must have `componentImage` set to `true` | describes whether this image is displayed on its component in the mobile app

## Endpoints

*This section is a work in progress.* :pick:

### Overview
A quick overview of all endpoints related to Variations on the Hip Hop Xpress
```javascript
   POST /v1/variations
    GET /v1/variations

    GET /v1/variations/:id
    PUT /v1/variations/:id
 DELETE /v1/variations/:id

   POST /v1/variations/:id/images
    GET /v1/variations/:id/images

   POST /v1/variations/:id/description
    GET /v1/variations/:id/description
```

### Usage
There are  four HTTP response codes to keep in mind when using the Variations endpoint:

HTTP Response Code | Description
-|-
`200` | Successful request
`404` | Variation of specified `id` is not found
`422` | Error, request contains invalid attributes
`500` | Something went wrong server-side (contact us if persistent)

All use cases for the Variations endpoints are listed below.

**Collection wide:**
* [Create variation: `POST /v1/variations`](#create-variation)
* [Retrieve all variations: `GET /v1/variations`](#retrieve-all-variations)

**Variation specific:**
* [Retrieve a variation: `GET /v1/variations/:id`](#retrieve-variation)
* [Update a variation: `PUT /v1/variations/:id`](#update-variation)
* [Delete a variation: `DELETE /v1/variations/:id`](#delete-variation)

**Variation data specific:**
* [Add images for variation: `POST /v1/variations/:id/images`](#add-images)
* [Retrieve images for variation: `GET /v1/variations/:id/images`](#retrieve-images)
* [Add text to variation description: `POST /v1/variations/:id/description`](#add-to-description)
* [Retrieve variation's description: `GET /v1/variations/:id/description`](#retrieve-description)

### Create variation
You can create a variation by sending a `PUT` request to `/v1/variations` with a [variation object](#the-variation-object) (JSON) as the body. All fields are required, and the `id` must be a unique, non-negative integer.

#### Parameters
A valid [variation object](#the-variation-object) (JSON) with correct attributes

#### Returns
The variation object as added in the database if successful. If the request body was invalid, details are returned as an array of error objects. Otherwise, an error object returns. 

### Retrieve all variations
You can retrieve the data for all variations by sending a `GET` request to `/v1/variations`

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
An array of all variation objects

### Retrieve variation
Retrieve a specific variation through its `id` by sending a `GET` request to `/v1/variations/:id`, with `:id` being the desired variation's `id` field.

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
The variation object with specified `id`

### Update variation
You can update attributes of a specific variation object by sending a `PUT` request to `/v1/variations/:id`, with `:id` being the `id` of a variation.

#### Parameters
A variation object containing only the attributes needing change, and their updated values. For example, if you need to change the `date` attribute, you only need to include the `date` field in your request: `{"date": "some new date"}`. However, any updated attributes must follow the [attribute restrictions](#attributes).

#### Returns
The updated variation object

### Delete variation
You can delete a variation object by sending a `DELETE` request to `/v1/variations/:id`, with `:id` being the `id` of the variation to delete.

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
The variation object that was deleted

### Add images
You can add images to a specific variation by sending a `POST` request to `/v1/variations/:id/images` and including the [image objects](#the-variation-'image'-object) in your request body.

#### Parameters
Either a single image object or an array of image objects in the request body. All attributes are required for each image object.

#### Returns
The updated images array

### Retrieve images
You can retrieve all the images for a specific variation by sending a `GET` request to `/v1/variations/:id/images` with `:id` being the `id` of the specific variation

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
The images array of variation with specified `id`, or an error object if variation `id` cannot be found

### Add to description
You can add text to a variation's description by sending a `POST` request to `/v1/variations/:id/description` with the text in the request body.

#### Parameters
Either a single `string` or an array of `string`s in the request body

#### Returns
The updated description (array of `string`s)t

### Retrieve description
You can retrieve all the text in a specific variation's description by sending a `GET` request to `/v1/variations/:id/description`

#### Parameters
None

#### Returns
The description (array of `string`s)

[**Back to top**](#variations-endpoint)
